Python and Databases

Introduction:
	In today’s fast paced business world the only way to keep up is to continuously monitor and store information. This information is typically stored in databases for analysis later. The information and trends found in these databases help companies make more informed decisions that can save millions of dollars. These databases are obviously not analyzed by people instead programs are written to find the patterns. Python and Linux are both used heavily for these tasks. 
	In this assignment you will read in a text file of baseball player salaries and look for a correlations between the player’s salaries and their respective positions and teams. You may use any and all material available to you and it is suggested that you do a little bit of digging into some simple statistical analysis methods used for this kind of analysis. You may also collaborate with other students on all topics.

Problem 1:

I have provided an excel file of with the following fields:

Team:Player:Salary:Position

Using python read in this data in a manner that makes it easy to analyze. The data must be stored in some sort of data type, Hint: arrays. The way you read in your data will be dependent on what you choose to do for problem two.

Problem 2:

Once the data has been read in it should be analyzed. You will pick a trend or theory that you wish to prove. Initially you may want to look over the data by eye to attempt to spot trends such as: pitchers have higher salaries, the Yankees pay their players more on average, or more complex theories such as the Dodgers have the biggest pay spread. 
	It is fine if your trend does not end up being true as long as you can prove it with your results. Also NOTE that the way you read in your data will be dependent on what theory you wish to analyze. 

EX.

If you wish to analyze which team pays the highest salaries you could organize the data into arrays where each array was a team’s roster. This would make summing and averaging a team’s salaries easier.

Grading:
The assignment is worth 30 points:

15 points – will be awarded for properly reading the entire file into any organization. 
The data must be stored within the program in a fashion that allows it to be manipulated.
5 points – will be awarded for how fitting the storage format is for studying the trend you have chosen.

10 points – will be awarded for the code that analyzes the trend and the format in which you display your results (whether you found it to be true or not)

5 points bonus – will be awarded based on the complexity of the trend chosen

Sources:

Go to the following link and download the 2003 American League Baseball Salaries. Then copy and paste the data inside the excel spreadsheet into a plain text file.

http://mathforum.org/workshops/sum96/data.collections/datalibrary/data.set6.html
